---
title: Stanley Druckenmiller talks about if we're in a tech bubble, what makes a great investor, and more
source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IwmSxcR8RTI
date: 2018-05-03
language: en
tags:
  - Druckenmiller
  - investment
  - interview
---
# Stanley Druckenmiller talks about if we're in a tech bubble, what makes a great investor, and more

---
## Transcript

### On the parallels between the recent tech sell-off and the Dotcom Bubble 
**Stanley Druckenmiller**: I’m seeing some similarities and I’m seeing some differences (with tech stocks today and during the Dotcom Bubble at the turn of the century). 

Number one: valuations in both periods go to what I would call “speculative levels”. 

Monetary policy was part of the issue in 1999, when (Fed Chairman) Alan Greenspan decided he would run an experiment and let unemployment go to lower levels than it had historically been. 

It’s nothing like the crazy stuff we’re doing now, but that helps set it up for what was really going on back then. 

Think about the fact that Netscape really didn’t really exist until 1995. So, other than some nerdy professors back in the early 80s, no one even had email, right? The internet was just sort of being built and the big winners in 1999 were companies like Sun Microsystem and Cisco, that were building the guts of the internet. 

The growth was so rapid as this went on and valuations — combined with some easy money — got baked in.

But think of the internet infrastructure like the railroads 150 years ago. Think of the tech stocks like a company selling railway ties and building the guts of the internet.

When you’re building the railroad, your sales are going up +50, +60 or +70% a year. But once the railroad is built (you don’t need the railway ties anymore). Your growth not only doesn’t go up 70%, it goes down because on a rate of change basis, you don’t need any more railroad ties. 

None of us — me included — saw that in early 2000. A lot of these companies with estimates of +50-70% growth for the next 2-3 years had businesses that were literally about to collapse. So the NASDAQ went down 95%. Not 30%, but 95%. Because you had this combination of inflated values, way over-estimated earnings and then an earnings collapse. 

Today, you have something similar and something different. Monetary policy is absolutely insane. We had no quantitative easing (QE) back then. And our (interest) rates weren’t 0%. They were 4% or 5% when they probably should have been 6% or 7%. No comparison.

So we have an asset bubble. Now that’s not just in tech stocks, it’s in everything. I know some of the [young] backers of Dogecoin might disagree. 

If you’re an asset, you’ve been moving. 

From 1995 to 2000, you had an incredible wave while the internet was being built. What you have now is this incredible wave of digital transformation, particularly moving onto the cloud.

I used to say 2-3 years ago in some interviews that we’re in the bottom of the first or second inning in terms of digital transformation. And this is a 10-year runway. 

Well, COVID sort of jumped you from the bottom half of the first first inning to the sixth inning. I think [Shopify CEO Tobi Lutke] said we went from 2019 to 2030 [in terms of e commerce sales] in one year. 

I think the difference now is if you haven’t moved to the cloud, you’re dead because who you’re competing against, they can just beat you because the technology is so important. 

So, now full disclosure, I didn’t see what was coming in 2000. But I [have a difficult time coming up] with a scenario that this digital transformation thing is going to collapse and these SAAS companies are going to go away. 

The biggest problem you have now is the overall bubble and asset prices. The good news is if we had this conversation 2 months ago, the good [SAAS stocks] were like 45-50x sales. Not earnings but sales. They’re down to — there’s a range — I’d say now 10-25x sales for the good ones. 

So if the problem is price and — in my opinion — that is the problem: a lot of that has been wrung out. And I think if you hold these names for 3-4 years, they could easily grow into their valuations. 

[In comparison] if you held the names in 2000, a lot of these companies you still would have lost 90% of your value, right? So those are the similarities and those are the differences.